_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: Incoming Linux Engineer at <a href='https://www.janestreet.com/'>Jane Street</a>. <a href='https://www.cs.cmu.edu/'>CMU SCS</a> Class of 2022. Currently located in Pittsburgh, PA, USA. 

profile:
  align: right
  image: fun_pic.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  address: >

news: true  # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true  # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

Hello! I am Fan Pu, currently a M.S in Computer Science student at Carnegie
Mellon University (CMU), having recently completed my Bachelor's in Computer
Science in 2022 at CMU as well. I have been involved in the open-source
programming assignment auto-grading platform
[Autolab](https://autolabproject.com/) since 2018.  I currently serve as the
Masters Student Liaison for the [Singapore Students
Association](https://cmussa.org/). I also used to frequently play
Capture-The-Flag (CTF) competitions with [PPP](https://pwning.net/).

I am broadly interested in rigorously proving why machine learning techniques
work and what guarantees we can extract out of them, borrowing tools from
theoretical computer science and mathematics.
My eventual goal is to build a startup
in AI/ML using the things that I've learnt.

My other academic interests include
complexity theory and mathematical analysis.

In my free time, I enjoy bouldering, running, 
reading textbooks, watching anime,
and playing Genshin Impact. If I have an extended
break I enjoy traveling, especially hiking
and exploring the great outdoors.

I grew up in my hometown Singapore before moving
to the US for college. I try to go back and visit 
once a year.

Feel free to reach out to me at 
fzeng[dot]andrew[dot]cmu[dot]edu. Unfortunately,
I am unable to provide referrals for people
that I have not worked with.

I recently earned a Technician amateur radio license, and my callsign is 
[KC3UFE](https://www.fccbulletin.com/callsign/?q=KC3UFE).

<!--
Put your address / P.O. box / other info right below your picture. You can also disable any these elements by editing `profile` property of the YAML header of your `_pages/about.md`. Edit `_bibliography/papers.bib` and Jekyll will render your [publications page](/al-folio/publications/) automatically.

Link to your social media connections, too. This theme is set up to use [Font Awesome icons](http://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome/) and [Academicons](https://jpswalsh.github.io/academicons/), like the ones below. Add your Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Google Scholar, or just disable all of them.
-->

Commit message:

work more on recloning old blog

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: Incoming Linux Engineer at <a href='https://www.janestreet.com/'>Jane Street</a>. <a href='https://www.cs.cmu.edu/'>CMU SCS</a> Class of 2022, MSCS Class of 2023. Currently located in Pittsburgh, PA, USA. 

profile:
  align: right
  image: fun_pic.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  address: >

news: true  # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: false # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true  # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

Hello! I am Fan Pu, currently a M.S in Computer Science student at Carnegie
Mellon University (CMU), having recently completed my Bachelor's in Computer
Science in 2022 at CMU as well. I have been involved in the open-source
programming assignment auto-grading platform
[Autolab](https://autolabproject.com/) since 2018.  I currently serve as the
Masters Student Liaison for the [Singapore Students
Association](https://cmussa.org/). I also used to frequently play
Capture-The-Flag (CTF) competitions with [PPP](https://pwning.net/).

I am broadly interested in rigorously proving why machine learning techniques
work and what guarantees we can extract out of them, borrowing tools from
theoretical computer science and mathematics.
My eventual goal is to build a startup
in AI/ML using the things that I've learnt.
My other academic interests include
complexity theory, programming language theory, and mathematics.

In my free time, I enjoy bouldering, running, 
reading textbooks, watching anime,
and playing Genshin Impact. If I have an extended
break I enjoy traveling, especially hiking
and exploring the great outdoors.

I grew up in my hometown Singapore before moving
to the US for college. I try to go back and visit 
once a year.

Feel free to reach out to me at 
fzeng[dot]andrew[dot]cmu[dot]edu. Unfortunately,
I am unable to provide referrals for people
that I have not worked with.

I recently earned a Technician amateur radio license, and my callsign is 
[KC3UFE](https://www.fccbulletin.com/callsign/?q=KC3UFE).

This blog was originally started on 24 June 2018, although
it has taken many forms since then.

<!--
Put your address / P.O. box / other info right below your picture. You can also disable any these elements by editing `profile` property of the YAML header of your `_pages/about.md`. Edit `_bibliography/papers.bib` and Jekyll will render your [publications page](/al-folio/publications/) automatically.

Link to your social media connections, too. This theme is set up to use [Font Awesome icons](http://fortawesome.github.io/Font-Awesome/) and [Academicons](https://jpswalsh.github.io/academicons/), like the ones below. Add your Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Google Scholar, or just disable all of them.
-->
